=pod

=head1 NAME

Locale::Changes - details important changes after 2.07

=head1 3.00

=over 4

=item New maintainer

From 1997 to 2004, Locale::Codes was maintained by Neil
Bowers. Unfortunately, no updates were made from June 2004 to January
2010. During that time, a number of changes have been made to the
standards since then, so the data included was out-of-date.

I contacted Neil to get his permission to assume maintenance of
the module, and he kindly agreed.

=item All codes are generated from standards

All of the values returned by the various functions are now values
directly from the standards. This means that the values returned in
the 2.xx series are not necessarily the same as the values returned
here.

As an example, the ISO 3166 standard which lists country codes refers
to the country associated with the code "bo" as "Bolivia,
Plurinational State of", so that is what is returned. In the 2.xx
series, "Bolivia" was returned.  Also, the country names vary from one
standard to another. So the code "bol" which is maintained by the
United Nations returns the name of the country as "Bolivia
(Plurinational State of)". Some common aliases have been added, so you
can still request a code associated with a county name "Bolivia".

Since the data comes from the standards, some "incorrect" values are
no longer supported. For example, 2.07 treated "Zaire" as an alias for
"Congo", but the country changed it's name, and "Zaire" is not in the
standard, so it has been dropped in 3.00.

=item Added several code sets from standards

I've added the following code sets:

   FIPS 10 country codes
   Alpha-3 and Term language codes
   Numeric currency codes

=item Locale::Script changed

In 2.xx, Locale::Script assigned scripts to country codes, which is NOT
how it is done currently in the standards. It appears that an older version
of ISO 15924 did this, but I haven't found an old version to confirm
that, and in any case, that is not the case in the current standards.

As a result, the Locale::Script module is completely incompatible with
the 2.xx version with respect to the types of codes it supports. None of
the old codes will work.

=item Added missing functions

I've added in some functions which were "missing" previously (since there was
only one set of codes supported, the code2code functions didn't apply):

   language_code2code
   currency_code2code

so the interfaces for each type of codes are consistent.

=item Dropped support for _alias_code

In Locale::Country, _alias_code was an allowed, but deprecated function
which was documented to be supported in the 2.xx series. I've removed it.

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

Locale::Codes

=head1 AUTHOR

See Locale::Codes for full author history.

Currently maintained by Sullivan Beck (sbeck@cpan.org).

=head1 COPYRIGHT

   Copyright (c) 2010-2010 Sullivan Beck

This module is free software; you can redistribute it and/or
modify it under the same terms as Perl itself.

=cut
